

Next: [Killing Buffers](Killing-Buffers.html), Previous: [Buffer List](Buffer-List.html), Up: [Buffers](Buffers.html)   \[[Contents](index.html#SEC_Contents "Table of contents")]\[[Index](Index.html "Index")]

### 27.9 Creating Buffers

This section describes the two primitives for creating buffers. `get-buffer-create` creates a buffer if it finds no existing buffer with the specified name; `generate-new-buffer` always creates a new buffer and gives it a unique name.

Other functions you can use to create buffers include `with-output-to-temp-buffer` (see [Temporary Displays](Temporary-Displays.html)) and `create-file-buffer` (see [Visiting Files](Visiting-Files.html)). Starting a subprocess can also create a buffer (see [Processes](Processes.html)).

*   Function: **get-buffer-create** *buffer-or-name*

    This function returns a buffer named `buffer-or-name`. The buffer returned does not become the current buffer—this function does not change which buffer is current.

    `buffer-or-name` must be either a string or an existing buffer. If it is a string and a live buffer with that name already exists, `get-buffer-create` returns that buffer. If no such buffer exists, it creates a new buffer. If `buffer-or-name` is a buffer instead of a string, it is returned as given, even if it is dead.

    ```lisp
    (get-buffer-create "foo")
         ⇒ #<buffer foo>
    ```

    The major mode for a newly created buffer is set to Fundamental mode. (The default value of the variable `major-mode` is handled at a higher level; see [Auto Major Mode](Auto-Major-Mode.html).) If the name begins with a space, the buffer initially disables undo information recording (see [Undo](Undo.html)).

<!---->

*   Function: **generate-new-buffer** *name*

    This function returns a newly created, empty buffer, but does not make it current. The name of the buffer is generated by passing `name` to the function `generate-new-buffer-name` (see [Buffer Names](Buffer-Names.html)). Thus, if there is no buffer named `name`, then that is the name of the new buffer; if that name is in use, a suffix of the form ‘`<n>`’, where `n` is an integer, is appended to `name`.

    An error is signaled if `name` is not a string.

    ```lisp
    (generate-new-buffer "bar")
         ⇒ #<buffer bar>
    ```

    ```lisp
    (generate-new-buffer "bar")
         ⇒ #<buffer bar<2>>
    ```

    ```lisp
    (generate-new-buffer "bar")
         ⇒ #<buffer bar<3>>
    ```

    The major mode for the new buffer is set to Fundamental mode. The default value of the variable `major-mode` is handled at a higher level. See [Auto Major Mode](Auto-Major-Mode.html).

Next: [Killing Buffers](Killing-Buffers.html), Previous: [Buffer List](Buffer-List.html), Up: [Buffers](Buffers.html)   \[[Contents](index.html#SEC_Contents "Table of contents")]\[[Index](Index.html "Index")]
