<!-- This is the GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual
corresponding to Emacs version 27.2.

Copyright (C) 1990-1996, 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "GNU General Public License," with the
Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU Manual," and with the Back-Cover
Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom." -->

<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 6.7, http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->

Next: [Special Read Syntax](Special-Read-Syntax.html), Up: [Lisp Data Types](Lisp-Data-Types.html)   \[[Contents](index.html#SEC_Contents "Table of contents")]\[[Index](Index.html "Index")]

### 2.1 Printed Representation and Read Syntax

The *printed representation* of an object is the format of the output generated by the Lisp printer (the function `prin1`) for that object. Every data type has a unique printed representation. The *read syntax* of an object is the format of the input accepted by the Lisp reader (the function `read`) for that object. This is not necessarily unique; many kinds of object have more than one syntax. See [Read and Print](Read-and-Print.html).

In most cases, an object’s printed representation is also a read syntax for the object. However, some types have no read syntax, since it does not make sense to enter objects of these types as constants in a Lisp program. These objects are printed in *hash notation*, which consists of the characters ‘`#<`’, a descriptive string (typically the type name followed by the name of the object), and a closing ‘`>`’. For example:

    (current-buffer)
         ⇒ #<buffer objects.texi>

Hash notation cannot be read at all, so the Lisp reader signals the error `invalid-read-syntax` whenever it encounters ‘`#<`’.

In other languages, an expression is text; it has no other form. In Lisp, an expression is primarily a Lisp object and only secondarily the text that is the object’s read syntax. Often there is no need to emphasize this distinction, but you must keep it in the back of your mind, or you will occasionally be very confused.

When you evaluate an expression interactively, the Lisp interpreter first reads the textual representation of it, producing a Lisp object, and then evaluates that object (see [Evaluation](Evaluation.html)). However, evaluation and reading are separate activities. Reading returns the Lisp object represented by the text that is read; the object may or may not be evaluated later. See [Input Functions](Input-Functions.html), for a description of `read`, the basic function for reading objects.

Next: [Special Read Syntax](Special-Read-Syntax.html), Up: [Lisp Data Types](Lisp-Data-Types.html)   \[[Contents](index.html#SEC_Contents "Table of contents")]\[[Index](Index.html "Index")]
