<!-- This is the GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual
corresponding to Emacs version 27.2.

Copyright (C) 1990-1996, 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "GNU General Public License," with the
Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU Manual," and with the Back-Cover
Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom." -->

<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 6.7, http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->

Next: [Operator Precedence Grammars](Operator-Precedence-Grammars.html), Up: [SMIE](SMIE.html)   \[[Contents](index.html#SEC_Contents "Table of contents")]\[[Index](Index.html "Index")]

#### 23.7.1.1 SMIE Setup and Features

SMIE is meant to be a one-stop shop for structural navigation and various other features which rely on the syntactic structure of code, in particular automatic indentation. The main entry point is `smie-setup` which is a function typically called while setting up a major mode.

*   Function: **smie-setup** *grammar rules-function \&rest keywords*

    Setup SMIE navigation and indentation. `grammar` is a grammar table generated by `smie-prec2->grammar`. `rules-function` is a set of indentation rules for use on `smie-rules-function`. `keywords` are additional arguments, which can include the following keywords:

    *   `:forward-token` `fun`: Specify the forward lexer to use.
    *   `:backward-token` `fun`: Specify the backward lexer to use.

Calling this function is sufficient to make commands such as `forward-sexp`, `backward-sexp`, and `transpose-sexps` be able to properly handle structural elements other than just the paired parentheses already handled by syntax tables. For example, if the provided grammar is precise enough, `transpose-sexps` can correctly transpose the two arguments of a `+` operator, taking into account the precedence rules of the language.

Calling `smie-setup` is also sufficient to make `TAB` indentation work in the expected way, extends `blink-matching-paren` to apply to elements like `begin...end`, and provides some commands that you can bind in the major mode keymap.

*   Command: **smie-close-block**

    This command closes the most recently opened (and not yet closed) block.

<!---->

*   Command: **smie-down-list** *\&optional arg*

    This command is like `down-list` but it also pays attention to nesting of tokens other than parentheses, such as `begin...end`.
